---
title: "the puck chasers dilemma"
description: "when creating products you can either chase the puck and compete, or you can position ahead of the curve and score" 
img: "https://storage.googleapis.com/pai-images/e6180626accd4d47a2aa9c3c5530190f.jpeg"
---
In hockey (and other sports), there's a concept known as "puck chasing". This happens when young or novice players simply follow the puck around the ice. They don't space out, they don't look for passes, they don't search for opportunities to get open to score a goal.

99% of companies are in the business of puck chasing. The puck starts to move and they cluster like a herd of cattle as they meander around the rink, following the puck here and there. Occasionally, a few of these companies manage to gain possession of the puck and, despite following a non-optimal strategy, they are able to score.

However, compare this to the 1% of companies that aren't puck chasing, but are positioning themselves where the puck is going to be, and the difference in scoring is a chasm. These non-puck chasers are scoring hundreds to thousands of goals. Without competition in their space, they have the room to operate and take advantage of opportunities without jostling shoulders with a stampede of cattle.

## The argument for puck chasing

Nothing I stated above is revolutionary in any way. We know that the greatest companies aren't puck chasing. Instead, they're positioning themselves ahead of the curve and innovating furiously. For this, they are (usually) rewarded by the market.

So why *would* you puck chase? **You don't have the ability to do anything else**.

That's fine, there's nothing inherently wrong with this. You might be a one or two-person team that doesn't possess the technical capability of others. Or, you may not be able to raise the capital required to create the innovations you're envisioning. After all, building nuclear plants on Mars is going to cost a lot of money.

So what should you do? You can accept this and understand that you're sacrificing two things when puck chasing: 

1. Your profit.
2. Your chances of success (assuming in both instances you launch a good product).

After all that effort puck chasing (which is still a lot of work), you end up competing with 50 other companies, and you weren't fast or lucky enough to get to the puck before them. 

## The argument for (real) innovation

When creating truly innovative and unique technologies/products, the chance that it will find success in the market is almost guaranteed if you successfully build and deploy it. This is a *huge* if. Generally speaking, operating ahead of the curve is likely to have a far lower success rate than operating within the pack and hoping you can reach the puck first.

So why then would you do this? For me, there are a few reasons: 

1. It's more fun.
2. It's more challenging.
3. You are probably going to improve humanity in some way.

"That's great, but remember the stuff you mentioned above?" I can hear you saying. Yes, I do. You might not have the skills or the ability to raise the capital required to innovate in the way that you want to. To that argument, I don't have a rebuttal. Figure it out if you want it badly enough, or don't, either path is brutally hard. 

## So which path?

I'm not sure. It's so easy to romanticize taking the path of true innovation, but you could end up spending years toiling away with nothing to show except for the painful wounds from all the lessons you've learned along the way. 

Then again, you could do the same while puck chasing, toiling away for years, only to get beaten to the puck by a competitor right before you're about to score.

Whatever path you take, know that it will be the hardest work you've ever done, and both paths are noble in their own way. Embarking on either and giving it your all already puts you in the 1%.

I wish you the best of luck out there and will be cheering for your success regardless of the path you take. o7
