---
title: "the explorer"
description: "what do you do when you're an explorer who has discovered something that nobody else should discover. a techno sci fi short story" 
img: "https://storage.googleapis.com/pai-images/cc67b565b8624c22877a267eff8f3055.jpeg"
category: "sci fi"
---

She is an explorer. What is the definition of an explorer? 

*Click*, "All connected, are you ready to go?".

"Am I an explorer?" she thought as the nerves in the subcutaneous tissue at the base of her skull vibrated with confusion after being forced to bunk with a new roomate.

To explore, does one have to physically move their body through space? Or is it enough to only move their consciousness through time? Is the only requirement that one is seeking to push another book onto the shelf of humanity's collective knowledge?

"Yes I am ready".

The doctor tapped away on his keyboard. Entering commands into a terminal. The explorer could just make out individual lines of text through her peripheral vision, but nothing more. With a sudden finality, the doctor hit enter and the explorer's reality fragmented.

Her mind twisted and shifted like God was turning a tuning knob connected to her forehead. Who was she? What is this? Suddenly "now" is not, there is only "it". There are only signals.

What happens when new physics are born? What can a human do when the API that was constructed on top of their interpretable reality, can no longer find it's endpoint?

No longer is there light, sound, touch, smell, or taste. There is only noise. An unbelievably overpowering static signal. The synapses in the explorers brain are shooting chemicals from their communication posts more than children blasting each other with water guns. 

"Brain activity spiking 10x baseline, heart rate nearing 95% of max" sputtered the nurse.

The explorer will never be able to visualize the lower levels of reality with her layer of abstraction shattered. She does however have the ability to recognize patterns.

*One, one pause, rapid one two three, one, one pause...*

Was she counting? There is no word for counting here, but her subconscious was registering the electrical impulses piped in through the foreign, non-organic machinery. Ever so slowly the unknown partitioned entity in the back of all human's minds, begins to gain hold of it's ship. It begins to time the rise and fall of the waves. Like a Captain of a vessel, the entity slowly guides it's cargo back to shore.

"Brain activity stabilizing at 5x baseline, heart rate holding at 75% of max. I'm going to increase her oxygen flow".

Awareness is not something that is easy for the subconscious to produce. Like getting a carbureted engine to run, the mind must tune the air:fuel ratio just right to avoid any misfires. Despite this, the Captain of the Explorer's mind had guided her away from the choppy waters and was currently docking at a port on shore.

She began to understand that she, was "she" a half hour later. Thirty minutes of arranging the puzzle pieces of her fractal mind back together. Only this time, it was not arranged in the same way that it was arranged prior. Sure the old parts were still there, but there were new ones as well. New concepts that did not yet have words for they did not exist until now.

She could see the charges of the electrons entering her brain. It wasn't seeing though and it wasn't a new sense. Senses were tools that were used to interact with the old reality. This new reality could only be interacted with by modifying constants through interfaces in the reality's source code. The same interfaces that the upper reality API's relied upon.

The reason the upper layer reality exists, is because it provides a safe interaction point for beings who are not Gods. Atoms cannot simply be disassembled and reassembled at will. Energy is required to create new elements and to destroy old. Simply put: upper reality exists so that talking monkeys cannot destroy the fucking universe.

But this was exactly what the Explorer found herself doing. She had the ability to just know all the atoms and particles around her. But there are not atoms and particles as they are known in upper reality. There are instead attributes that can be combined and passed into assembler systems for construction of things with many attributes. And other things with many attributes could just as easily be passed the disassembly systems.

At first the Explorer didn't realize what she was doing. Assembling and disassembling matter at will. She could not create mass, but she could modify it without the normal expenditure of energy.

Her upper reality senses, though severely muted, were still being managed by her mind. She heard screaming. "Pull her! Pull her out now!" she heard, like her ears were submerged below water, the sound wave's frequency being elongated by the water.

Like a submarine slowly rising to the surface, she began to float back to upper reality. Her senses were coming back online, slowly at first but now rapidly.

As she opened her eyes, she struggled to understand what she was seeing. "I must be in a different room" she thought as she took in the geometry and color of the shapes around her.

The room had been disassembled and reassembled back together again, but this time in the patterning that her subconscious had built for her. The matter in all the materials around her had been taken from. Their surfaces now tarnished and flat, the first few layers of molecules ripped away.

But there was also screaming, "why am I hearing screaming" she thought. She realized then in horror that she did not only borrow matter from non-organic material, but she had also borrowed from the organic kind. 

There wasn't blood like you would expect, at least not yet. The doctors and nurses in the room almost looked as if they had sunburn. But it wasn't sunburn, it was more like their whole body had been the donor of a skin graft. 

Raw, pink fascia, slowly oozing plasma, water, and red blood cells. Having the first couple layers of skin taken from you will not kill you, but it will make your existence very painful. 

And so the Explorer wondered. She wondered if this new book that she held should be donated to the library. Added to the proverbial bookshelf.

As she took in the site of the structure around her, its geometry slowly shifting as it fragments and redirects light, she thought: "no".
