---
title: "the drive"
description: "do you feel that? what drives you? what exactly is it? maybe I should embrace it and see where it leads." 
img: "https://assets.playgroundai.com/0e893a6c-e6ed-4601-b2be-297296148ce3.jpg"
category: "thoughts"
---

You feel that? That feeling of needing to create? The need to put steel into the furnace, the inferno ready to forge the thoughts of your mind into constructs in reality.

Your fingers dance along the keys, each keystroke inching you closer to digital conception. Driven by an insatiable appetite to bring more into this world than you take.

But it's not just the act of creation, is it? Much of it has to do with you. You're compelled by some unknown force that demands you achieve mastery of your craft.

This force has a ferocity in its hunger that you had not anticipated. When you first encountered this beast, you were fearful of it; however, now you let it consume you.

You decide that you will let it take you because you know that when your brain is executing on its last few instructions, and your clock cycles are becoming slower, you will regret not letting it.

And so you push the boundaries of your mind until you find a limit and then you push more. You drive and drive and drive. You will find what you're capable of and then you will do more. You will find the limit to that more and you will do more.

You exist with agentic abilities of creation bestowed upon you by God. You are working hand in hand with other biological and artificial entities that possess the same miraculous gift.

You must be reminded constantly of this else you risk complacency. You must never forget what your future holds. You must enter into this with no intentions of stepping out.

You must create in one form or another until you are no longer capable of creation and your creator disassembles your atoms for the next generation of creators.

You must achieve mastery and then you must funnel that mastery into something that grinds this whole damn ship forward a millimeter. And then you will create anew, attempting to move the ship another millimeter.

You will not find peace in rest. You will find peace in the fact that you applied every petaflop of compute you had. You cycled every synaptic circuit as many times as you possibly could.

You are remarkable. You are dancing through time with billions of other remarkable beings. Do not squander this.
