---
title: "earth is a seed we must consume"
description: "our current path of resource conservation will lead to the inevitable outcome of humanity's extinction." 
img: "https://storage.googleapis.com/pai-images/203b8bd2c9064c1e8e5c954412205c81.jpeg"
category: "thoughts"
---

The worst way to die is a slow and agonizing death. Slowly fading away into obscurity, the flame of ones existence forever extinguished in the stream of time. This is exactly the path that the earth and humanity are on; a slow and agonizing death.

We are not on this path because of climate change as many would have you believe. We are on this path because we are consuming the resources of this planet with no intentions of leaving.

The earth is like a seed. It is the basis for which humanity can start it's growth into the solar system and beyond. It comes prepackaged with all the resources and life we need to make it off of this rock and live for millennia to come. The catch is: **we need to consume all of it.**

Conservation and deceleration will be the reason for humanities failure. By slowly consuming our resources we will eventually reach the same point that we would if we quickly consumed all of it, just much further into the future. That's easy to swallow because it's not you, or your children, or your grandchildren that will have to face a slow, agonizing death.

We cannot allow our high time preference minds, tuned by millions of years of evolution, be the reason that humanity never reaches for the stars. Our inability to think on timescales past 10 years will doom us to an existence stuck at the bottom of a gravity well. What an embarrassing way for this incredible species to die.

Given this inevitability, the obvious question is: why are aren't we doing anything about it? Because we are fighting not only against high time preference, we are also fighting against the commonly held belief that we must conserve the earth. Climate activists are not wrong in their observation of the problem, they are wrong in their proposed solutions. 

Their solution will lead to a slow burn of resources. Led by the general feeling of "we must protect this planet, we can't just abandon it for the stars". It's naive and it's going to get all of us killed. Their conservative approach to resource consumption is the biggest threat to humanities survival.

Given that 99% of the planet falls into the "conservation bucket", how can we avoid this? I think the solution lies in forcing their hand through two mechanisms that seem to be as concrete and inevitable as time: reproduction and capital markets.

The primary driver to humans occupying more space has been population. With a greater population comes larger capital markets. As the population in a given area continues to grow an over saturation occurs in the market and the population begins to spread outwards again looking for space to create new markets with new businesses and jobs. 

Given a long enough timescale, humanity we will begin to bump up against the edges of space that earth can provide to us forcing us to make the leap off this planet. Allowing us once again to expand our population and to create new markets.

Conservationists will have us believe that we must shrink our population and in fact we are seeing this happen today. The population growth rate has been steadily declining and nearly everyone you talk to believes that the earth is overpopulated. The earth is not overpopulated and if we want to survive we need to create more and more humans.

With each new human we are rolling the dice that we will get the next Einstein. With more dice rolls the more likely we are to be blessed with incredible humans who will be paramount to humanities continued growth.

This is not to say that we should blindly go and make more babies and consume more and more resources, **we must do this with intentionality**. 

So what should be the plan? The plan is simple: continue on an exponential growth curve with the intention of leaving. We need to continue producing more energy, more children, and more technology. Over time the inevitability of requiring more space for population and markets will take over and be the driving force to push us into the stars. 

We only have one shot at this. We do not get a second chance to consume the seed of earth.

If we want humanity to flourish then we must destroy the false narratives of resource conservationism and deceleration. We must show that on a large enough timescale the earth will no longer support life as we know it. We must get individuals to think with low time preference and we must somehow show that there is potential for life beyond this planet. We have a lot of work to do to make this a reality.
