---
title: "tragedy of the unchallenged"
description: "how many of us are chronically under-challenged? how could the world change if we were maximally challenged?" 
img: "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/danwritecode/supyoblog/master/public/img/tragedy_of_unchallenged.webp"
category: "thoughts"
---

A tragedy I consistently see among friends, co-workers, and family members is the gray existence resulting from being unchallenged. A malaise that silently devours their dream-filled hearts and minds, leaving behind a hollowed-out husk yearning for something unidentifiable.

They set a course at an early age on a path that neither they, nor their families or teachers, put much thought into. They were told to just pick a path, often tragically advised to choose an "easy and high-paying" one. They would fulfill their daily duties, finding happiness in vacations and weekends.

However, even as they took their first steps down this path, they began to feel an existential panic. Without the challenge of schoolwork and competition with classmates, they started to wonder if this was all their chosen path had to offer. Quickly, these thoughts were snuffed out, as the idea of changing course seemed like the disposal of years of training.

The reality is unfortunately far worse. Their training was needless, as anyone could walk this path. They think, "Anyone with a few months of training could do this job." And silently, their hearts grow ever duller, the light that once filled their eyes as children becoming dim.

I view this as humanity's greatest modern failure. A silent sickness has plagued the majority of white-collar work, robbing humanity of bright minds that, if optimally and maximally challenged, could have made the world better.

I've felt this grayness encroach upon my soul several times. A vignette that creeps in on the vision of your dreams until you are totally incapable of sight. Each time I detect this happening, it fills me with a sense of terror and anguish, an angst that only through action and challenge can be soothed.

### The Virtue of Challenge
To bring the light back to your eyes, you must find a challenge. The simplicity and easiness of coasting through life is the source of unhappiness.

Furthermore, maximally challenging yourself will benefit those around you. You will solve problems, both large and small, that improve others' lives. This alone is enough to reignite the fire.

### The Role of Creation
Humans have a unique ability on Earth: we can use our minds to create things that didn't previously exist. Through creation, you have no choice but to be challenged, as creation is inherently not easy. Through this, you will find both the joy of bringing new life into this world and the challenge you so (unknowingly) desperately seek.

### Solving the Problem at Scale
Solving this problem at scale requires universal awareness and acknowledgment of the issue. It necessitates society casting aside its lustful and slothful tendencies and replacing them with meaningful and challenging work.

Education systems need radical change. We've been pushing hundreds of millions of children down a predetermined, non-individualized, unchallenging path for over half a century. From the start, they are trained to extinguish the light of their imagination, cast aside their individuality, and forever dull the sharpness of their minds.

Children's aptitudes should be identified early on by family members and teachers. Cohorts of like-minded students should form, and individualized educational paths should be formalized. Students should be pushed, taught the virtue of being challenged, and the euphoria that accompanies creation.

Schools should optimize for finding the most challenging path each student is capable of traveling. The notion of optimizing for the easiest life should be viewed with such disdain that the idea never enters a child's mind.

### But What About Adults?
There is no excuse for adults not to take immediate action. They have the awareness to identify their strengths and should immediately challenge themselves by diving into learning these things.

If your career is boring, mundane, and easy, then find the most challenging, optimal career move that will fill your life with the challenge you so desperately desire.


### Closing thoughts
There is no greater tragedy than an easy life lived. You will die wondering why you never accomplished anything. You will wish you had created things, helped those around you, and not squandered the only life given to you.

Bring life back into the husk of your being, reignite the light of your youth, and work harder than you ever thought possible.
