---
title: "the coddled engineer class"
description: "there is an epidemic of coddled software engineers being fed requirements like they work on a conveyor belt resulting in souless software."
img: "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/danwritecode/supyoblog/master/public/img/tragedy_of_unchallenged.webp"
---
Why are you as a human being, an above average intelligence SWE, allowing your manager who probably doesn't even code feed you requirements like you're a little baby with the requirements on a spoon like it's some apple sauce slop? Are you going to let your manager coo at you next? "Oooohhh good little engineer, here you go, code this next, we got it all ready for you, just go ahead and code it. Ooooh! Good job!"

It's embarrassing that any organizations function like this and it's a situation that occurs because managers think they can streamline processes by "getting everything ready" ahead of time. They believe that they can treat software like a conveyor belt in a factory. But software is not about that, *software is not about implementing solutions, it is about solving problems*.

How do you even know what problems you're solving? Did you talk to the users? Go and take a second to sit down with the users that are having a problem and you'll discover that you walk away with a far richer understanding of the issues they're facing. 

Then walk back to your desk, do not create a Jira ticket, do not talk to your boss, but instead: start coding. Create a proof of concept and once you're done send it to the user and ask: "Does this solve your problem?" You don't have to spend weeks on this, spend a couple hours, see if your solution even works. Once you confirm it does, then go to your boss and go "Hey boss, I solved this issue the business was having but I'd like to improve it. Cool if I take a couple weeks and implement this correctly? I will also need Jane's help for a small part of it". A good boss will respond positively to this, a bad boss will feel threatened and will feel like you are trying to quit your 9-5 at the conveyor belt factory that they set up to perfectly control your inputs and outputs. If this is your boss, *quit your job and don't look back*. 

Very quickly you will find that coding itself is not the only thing you love. You love solving problems on your own, you love having agency, you love the feeling you get when users are ecstatic that they no longer have to deal with whatever problem was plaguing them for weeks that they couldn't seem to get anyone to take action on. 

You will find that you start to love your job more. You are capable of thinking on your own, you are capable of making decisions on your own, you are capable of deciding whether working on something is in the best interest of the company or not. Managers don't think you are capable of understanding what will help the business, but this is not true. Remember, if you're smart enough to build awesome solutions in code, you're smart enough to understand the business model of your company. Always be prepared to explain why the problem you're solving increases revenue in some way.

There will someday exist a conveyor belt system where a manager plops some slop requirements onto it and those requirements will be implemented exactly as stated with no hesitation. That system is the next generation of LLM coding agents that will take your job if you don't learn to show some damn agency. Are you really going to let yourself get replaced on the conveyor belt line by an LLM? That's how little effort you put into your job as a problem solver, that you'll let an LLM take your spot on the line? The LLM doesn't know the problems the user is facing, the LLM can't go and sit with the users to experience their problems. The LLM can't decide on its own to go and fix a problem that will make the user ecstatic. The LLM can't do any of these things and yet you're going to just get replaced by them because you can't seem to find a way off the conveyor belt line.

Your job is not to just implement solutions that you're told to implement. Your job is to THINK, your job is to work with the users to understand the PROBLEM, your job is to formulate a solution that best fits the needs of the user and your company. Then finally your job is to IMPLEMENT the solution, whether you do that on your own or you work 1:1 with your coworkers to get help.

Startups that have technical founders build amazing products, why? Because they interface directly with the users. If you're building a house for someone you won't only talk to the architect, you'll talk to the family that wants the home and wants this space for their dogs and this space for their children. You'll build the home to suit their needs perfectly, because you deeply understand what those needs are.

**The further the engineers are from the users, the lower the quality of the software will be.**
